phones are undoubtedly an incredible
creation we can take calls we can
connect with people we can take high
quality photos we can listen to music we
can access the news we can play
addictive games we can do so much on our
phones but how incredible an invention
this is is highly dependent on how we
decide to use them social media or
addiction is a new normal
millions of people spend hours at their
time on their phones every single day
and we just are very dependent on our
phones I think it's really important to
be mindful of how we're using them and
in this video I wanted to share with you
how I use technology to be productive
and study as opposed to it being
something which takes away my time and
stops me from being productive like
anyone my use of social media is
sometimes very questionable and
sometimes I do spend way too much time
on it
and I get stuck scrolling through
Instagram and I really regret it
afterwards but on the whole I would say
that I use technology in such a way that
it's able to help rather than hinder so
today I'm going to be showing you
productivity apps that I have and also
the Chrome extensions I have as well
hopefully you find this video helpful
lots of people have been requesting it
and I have some really great apps to
share with you I use try on both my
phone and my laptop and it is the main
app I use for organizing things and
keeping on top of projects Trello is
built in such a way that it's really
easy to organize your tasks I like to
separate elements of my life into boards
and then on each of these you can have
specific sections so for example I've
got a board for university and I have
different sections for different modules
I will use it to track assessments so
there's a section for your description
where I will just put the assessment
details and then you can add mini to-do
lists so I just add these for all of the
things I need to do the assessment it's
a really great thing to keep different
larger to do separate from each other it
just allows for more complex to-do list
than a single list can offer you I also
use it as my main YouTube planner so all
of my video ideas are on this board here
I will write down any video requests
here and then I can transfer them
between the different sections and with
the sections and elements
couldn't drag different 2ds between them
so you could have a system where it goes
like to do working on and then completed
okay so the second one I want to
recommend is to do it's just a really
simple easy to use app and website I
mainly use it on the computer but I also
have the app on my phone when you've
completed a task tap it and it basically
works like a written weekly plan because
you can set to do's for like Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
Saturday at a glance you can just go on
there and just write your to do this for
the whole week and then you can also
move tasks easily between days of the
week if you realize you don't have time
to complete it one day with this one it
is paid for you hae two pounds a month
next is moments it's a way to keep
better track of your screen time and
make sure that you're not spending too
much time on your phone it just gives
you more detailed analytics of how much
time you're spending the thing I really
love about moment is that it gives you
notifications to tell you how long you
spend on your phone that day and how
close you are to your ideal a limit on
screen time so I've found this really
helpful because when I see that
notification I'm more likely to put my
phone down and be reminded that I
shouldn't be on it so the next app is a
tracker and again this is one that I
haven't really used yet but I wanted to
include it because I think it could be
helpful and I do plan on using it a lot
more you can use this to track how long
you're spending on different things each
day so you can set different sections of
tasks so I think for the free version
you can have five I'd say when you start
studying you just click it and it starts
a timer when you go on to eating lunch
you just click eating and then it tracks
that time and then at the end of the day
it will show you where your time went
and do it in a pie chart so you can see
how much time you spent on different
things in your day it helps you realize
where your time is going the next up is
raining rain this is great for those
days when you really wish it was raining
I always find it's easier to focus and
study when it's raining outside so for
those days where you still want to feel
cozy you want it to be raining you can
make these little air samar soundscapes
for yourself which you can play in the
background you might choose to combine
like the rain original with a crackling
fire and thunder cracks and there are
loads of different options
the next app is to do it I used to do is
to track all of my more miscellaneous
to-do lists so there's an option to add
loads of different lists you can easily
separate - dues into sections and
folders which I like and within specific
tasks you can have checklists which I
always think is useful the main thing I
use to do is for is my admin list
sometimes like maybe every day every
other day I will sit down and give
myself half an hour to just you run your
admin tasks I have a long list of -
doers of admin tasks at some point I
need to get done and most of these are
time sensitive
but then when I give myself as half an
hour I just go through and I can just
make my way through this admin list and
during the day just as things come that
come up I will add them to this todoist
digital list next is dun dun is a habit
tracker that is a free version for done
but you can only add three habits and so
I actually upgraded to the full version
which was 9 pounds which is very
expensive ran up but so far I am glad
that I upgraded so this is the app and
as you complete the different habits
that you've set for yourself you just
tap it it's a great way to keep you
accountable and make sure that you're
working towards building or breaking
habit and you also you can look at
graphs and track your progress
see how often you're completing your
tasks I would be very surprised if you
hadn't heard about first already but if
you didn't know it's a great way to keep
off your phone when you're studying and
stop yourself from getting distracted by
notifications so you will plant a
virtual tree and set a timer for how
long it's going to grow and the length
of time that it's growing is the length
of time that you can't go on your phone
and if you go on your phone before this
timer is up then your tree will die so
it's a really great way to you know
prevent yourself from going on your
phone and it can be very addictive
because you want to unlock all these
trees and grow a great forest the next
one is a really simple one comes with
every single iPhone which is clock I
love being able to set timers on here
because Parkinson's law says that a task
that you long gate to fit the length of
time that you set for it so if I set
timers when I'm working I am more likely
to get the tasks done quickly so I use
the timer a lot I also like to use it to
stack a stopwatch to see how long tasks
are taking me and to track how long and
bending studying some days if you've
watched a lot of my videos you will be
very familiar with this screen this is
momentum and I actually do have a
subscription to momentum Plus which I've
had for two years now and I've only
recently made me stopped using it as
much as I was before so I probably won't
renew the subscription when it comes
back around this screen also has two key
opens whenever I type in Google you can
add lots of to do you can set your main
focus for the day I also love that
you've got this really nice landscape
picture and then it also gives you a
motivational quote so today's is you
cannot swim for new horizons until you
have the courage to lose sight of the
shore so at the moment the main thing
that I use momentum for is if I've only
got an hour to do something you know if
I'm going out in an hour and I want to
get some bits done but I don't have very
long then I will just jot down like the
six things I plan to do in order before
I leave and you have the main thing I
use it for because it's really easy for
jotting down really quick to do's I
would recommend I think it's really I
think it's a really good platform next
allow me alarm E is the app I used to
wake up every morning it's an alarm app
it's free you have to do a task to turn
off the alarm so it actually gets you
awake and up as opposed to just you know
blindly fumbling for the phone to turn
it off the one that I do is scanning a
barcode I've got to get out of bed and
scan a barcode on my book every morning
if I'm going to turn the alarm off and
it always gets me up so this app is
literally if you want to stop waking up
earlier I cannot tell you how useful
this app is I really wanted to include
out of milk on this list because I found
it last year and I really found it
helpful at university and we've been
using it at home as well this is for
tracking food shopping so you make a
pantry list where this is all of the
things that you always want to have in
and then when you run out you can easily
just move this over to your shopping
list so it's just like it's literally
the best food shopping list method ever
and you can also sync it between family
members which is great
I would be very surprised if you hadn't
heard of this next one this is Quizlet
which is spoken about so much in the
study community you can make digital
flashcard sets and it's so much quicker
than making them by hand and it's great
that you can just sync them between
devices you can access them anywhere
which I love I used Quizlet for all of
my a level revision pretty much all of
my GCSE revision and I use it still all
the time at university these next few
things are I pad app this is the iPad I
have and I also use the Apple pencil it
is the original iPad and it's the one
advertise to students so it's compatible
with the pencil but it's a lot cheaper
than the iPad pro the two apps I mainly
use are good notes which is a virtual
notebook and you can write in it with
the Apple pencil so this is a great
alternative to bringing paper and pen to
lecture you can take digital notes that
you can also draw diagrams and things
I'm pretty sure good notes I did pay for
it's like under 10 pounds I think it's
definitely worth the money if you're
buying the iPad and the other thing I
use is just files or burps I knew I was
going to have loads of readings to do at
university but I didn't like the idea of
printing off hundreds of pages a month
of readings so I can just download these
to the iPad and then I can annotate them
and highlight them as I would if I'd
printed them off so this saves me using
a lot of paper and those two apps are
the main reason that I actually decided
to get the iPad and even though they're
the two things I really mainly use the
iPad for I have found that it's really
useful because I do use both of those a
lot the next one I want to mention is
par Lego I have been sponsored by this
brand in the past and my subscription
has been gifted to me so do you keep
that in mind but I do use pal ego a lot
when it comes to studying basically it's
a digital archive of thousands of tax
books and nonfiction books which can
help with research for essays and the
thing I really love about this is that
you can go through and highlight and
annotate these books and then it
collects all of your annotations in a
single place which you can then go back
to you and then refer to this
information when you're writing an essay
I find it a really helpful platform when
doing research for essays and I would
very much recommend it the next app I
like to use is Kindle and specifically I
like to use the desktop version so
basically on Kindle you can download
some ebooks for free if they are you
know in the pod
and so you don't even have to pay for
them say for example I wrote an essay on
Great Expectations and I just used the
free Kindle version to to go through the
book and make annotations and notes and
Kindle literally is the best platform
when it comes to easily compiling or
annotations making your way through
notes I love how you can just search for
any keyword in the book I just find it's
a really versatile easy platform to use
and if you're an English literature
student I really think that Kindle is
worth downloading on your laptop so I
should take all of my notes on Google
Drive because you can basically make an
unlimited number of documents and I love
that you don't have to worry about it
backing off and saving I am always
worried when I use a Pages document a
word that I'm going to accidentally not
save it and then lose my work whereas
with Google Drive it all updates
automatically saves to the cloud and
also you can go back and review your
edits and changes that you made right
from the beginning of the document which
is actually so handy I only use Drive I
don't even have wire downloaded on my
laptop the next one I just want to
mention are two Chrome extensions which
I will use when I'm taking notes here is
a paper on spiritual particular as it be
notes allows you to highlight web pages
and you can color code these you can add
annotations and notes and then you can
just go up in the corner and see all of
your annotations and highlight the other
one is called quick note this is such a
simple idea it's just this little text
box in the corner and whilst you're
doing research you can just jot down
really quick notes
these next things are productive things
you can do on your phone hello Loula so
first of all audible I like to listen to
audible when they exercise it's
basically a way that you can listen to
loads of audiobooks I like to listen to
yourself out books and nonfiction books
is actually on my dock so I do use this
a lot of course I have to include
Spotify on this first and I mainly use
Spotify to listen to classical music
when I study I feel like it's a really
great way to keep focused I also love
the TED Talks
app and obviously you can access TED
Talks just online on YouTube but this
app is free and the great thing about it
is you can download TED Talks to watch
offline and you can save ones that you
want to watch later I like to have this
downloaded for long car journeys for
when I'm traveling and I don't have
access to Wi-Fi but I want to learn
something new as a TED talk would always
help you to do I just want to quickly
also mention some online course websites
that you might want to try so
futurelearn is one that i've used a lot
in the past actually actually to be a
future that ambassador at my school when
I was in st. formal say I have done
quite a few of these courses and they're
free they're run by universities the
other one that I do use is masterclass
which is where professionals will teach
you that craft so for example I did one
on conservation by Jane Goodall I don't
want my outward I'm doing one by Neil
Gaiman at the moment there are so many
things you can learn about in last class
master class is quite pricey but I
personally do really enjoy it next one
is blinkers a gambling kiss is a company
that I've worked with before I do have a
gifted subscription to black bling cast
but I used it before I respond sir by
them basically they can dance books into
ten minute audiobooks so it gives you
the key bits of each chapter and this is
really great I think for nonfiction
books and self-help books so you can
walk away with the key elements of text
without having to read the whole thing
and I love reading but also sometimes
there are books that you just want to
take the key information from especially
if you don't really like the writing
style yeah this is really good I like to
listen to it when I'm at the gym
sometimes at university so thank you so
much for watching this video I hope that
you enjoyed watching it I hope it was
helpful I hope you walked away with some
good recommendations of apps I will
leave the mention down below as well if
you miss the name of them and yes I hope
that you have a productive week
[Music]